Remember?
We were at the ending, we were talking about the ending of November 5th.
I intend that it, although, I intend it to be a positive ending.
It's Richard Yates kind of ending, is it?
You say it is?
It is not?
No.
No, I don't think it's not.
It's not bitterness.
Talk to me about five minutes about Richard Gates.
I first met Richard Gates at Iowa.
He came there as my teacher.
He was, we all lost in the Institute.
because he immediately went out drinking those.
So every class, when Richard Gates would meet once a week, they would all end up at a bar in Iowa City.
And we were all young married.
Almost all the students then were married and had kids.
There were a handful who were single, but for most part,
We were all married.
And Jerry Williams was single, one of the handful.
And once a week, the class sessions, the drinking sessions, we end up going to someone calling home.
Actually, we say we're going to have, you know, we're going over someone's house.
Andre's house, when he goes to my house, that's how I'm his friend.
And I remember when the comedy had never parted his goal.
So, and Richard Yates, he's always kind of at the center of this, and of course he loved it, because it was a kind of drinking thing that he liked.
And he was telling his story, and he was, he was very fun to be around, and he had wonderful sentiment.
He was very sentimental over the office.
He had a sentiment that,
but I'm a child, you know, and I've been a person.
And you play old music and tell stories and leave you up before four o'clock in the morning.
There is a kind of a, I do sense of sort of parity.
A lot of the characters, I mean, there is this sympathy with me, the damage, and there's a sort of frustration in a lot of, maybe I'm reaching just a little too,
He was always regarded as a writer's writer, and I remember asking him, you know, and it was a matter of some agitation to him that he couldn't really make it as a commercial writer.
I mean, I really had a, he needed these site credits and these scholarships and things like that.
And he said, if I knew how to write a bestseller, he said, I'm going to do it in five minutes.
I don't know how to do it.
He said, I mean, I write what I write.
I'm sure we all do.
We're all running to support our habits, and we'd love to do what we do.
I'm sure you do.
Why not?
Just to support yourself.
Well, you know, your character here is
I'm sure you do a hell of a job for us, but you hate this.
I think that's what you're saying right now.
Tell me about the development of your part.
How would you characterize... I'm sure you see it as a corpus, if there is a body report, isn't it?
One where it has more or less led into the next one.
I mean, the true detective does seem to be one that's had a lot of the track, a little bit, but... Well, certainly my first novel, which I wrote almost accidentally,
I did not set out to write that novel, in fact.
I mean, I didn't know where it was going as I wrote it.
But I wanted to write a novel, and it's pretty much an autobiographical novel.
In fact, what happened is I told a couple short stories.
I came here to teach that
You lived in New Hampshire for quite a while, haven't you?
Yeah, since 1960.
What's the day this?
Just about, yeah.
Not quite.
I told a couple stories.
In fact, one day, a story taken by a New Yorker, a story taken by a black man.
Wow.
That's fine.
That's fine in New York the same day.
And you were doing this?
I did it myself.
I came in the mail.
These were acceptances.
Letters in the mail.
Well, there's a date.
The rest of the letter is a date.
It's 1967.
And my colleagues and friends at the University of Massachusetts, Tom Williams, novelists, John Young, Mark Smith, they all had novels out there.
And I wanted to write a novel.
I was put in touch with their various editors and met with them.
And they began to make me offers on the basis of these coupled stories.
And I said, these will be chapters in this novel I'm going to write.
And so they offered me various advances and they got into a bit of a bidding thing.
And so I ended up with Random House.
to do a first novel, and they gave me, what, it was $15,000 advance, which at the time was one of the $1,000 advance, which was pretty standard.
For a first novel, that's right.
Yeah, for a first novel.
In fact, I took a year off from teaching, and in fact, I tried to write a novel, but I didn't know where I was going with it.
So how did you see it?
Well, it was a little bit fun.
Oh, yeah.
school ended and I started writing this thing and throughout the summer I knocked off 200 pages.
All I knew was I wanted to do a father and son story.
And so I started with the childhood of the father.
So I invented it.
And of course I didn't know quite what I was getting into.
Maybe I was influenced by Thomas Wolfe.
I was going for the big thing, and after about 200-some pages, I realized that if I continued at that pace in the scope, I would have a 5,000-page novel.
It just started working, so I bagged that and started over from the point of view of The Sun, but as a child growing up.
I was doing it chronologically.
I wrote another 50 or 60 pages into that, and that clearly wasn't worth it.
By then, this year that I'd taken off to live on the advance, I was into November, this time of year.
I had a little study.
I lived out in the country, and I had a separate shed with a window, looked over a field, and after the second failed attempt of living on this money, I was striking the brighter spot.
The only time in my life is I was so tense and tight, I couldn't do anything.
What year is this again?
This was, um, in 1968.
Um, this lasted about two weeks, and I lived with it as a kind of secret.
I didn't tell even my wife.
I'd go out to my shed each day, and... You worked in a shed?
Yeah, we were in a shed with windows hooked up on a few... Barrington.
And then finally one day, the first snowfall of the year came, and for some reason I said to myself, take the kid, go to the heart of the problem, put him in a stolen car, have it be in a snowstorm, and I started writing.
It was snowing way up, right?
Yeah, and that came, that's the opening.
Yeah, sure, I was about to say, why did the opening chapter here be arrested?
This novel must have brought to a number of lives here.
A very invariant.
Some of the first couple of attempts didn't deal with any of this at all.
I didn't begin with this arrest situation.
Yeah.
No, anyway, I didn't.
The father was riding the rail.
In the first attempt.
In the young man.
In the depression.
Yeah, it was quite remarkable.
And, of course, winning the city is also from the viewpoint of a teenage kid, too.
I mean, I've already said that if Catra and the Ride would be written today, it would be marketed as a non-adult novel.
Because, I mean, it's one of the no-no's today is you can't wait for the adult trade market.
It's still right from the viewpoint of a teenager, 15, 16, 17-year-old kid.
Yeah.
I mean, I'll bet you there's a problem today trying to sell that kind of
In fact, it's carried in libraries.
It's marked as a YA.
Is it?
That was just my guess.
I saw it in the library the other day.
Of course, it's library.
I noticed what kind of shelf it had with a YA label on it.
What do you think of that?
I'm not sure.
No, I certainly intended it as an adult novel.
Without question, are themes there?
Yeah.
They are all adult themes.
I mean, I'm happy with the notion that I've got a lot of nice attention.
I did letters from schools and teachers and so on, saying to kids' office, they did this book in their class.
It was a discovery book for me.
I'm just delighted to have read it.
Oh, thank you.
I mean, I've become a fan, you know, very quickly, in a couple of weeks.
I'm really pleased with that.
kids, high school kids, and so on, we didn't identify and like it.
Have any of your editors, again, this is now, but did they say he's good from Big Tech, kind of so, right from the viewpoint of a teenager?
Was there any concern there, or there wasn't?
No, it was never.
When the marketing people didn't determine
whether a book is an adult book or for young adults.
This would happen to me, it really would.
I think you'd have a hard time coming in as a brand new writer, trying to play this book.
My friend Robert Cormier has this trouble all the time.
He's been trying to break through it.
Let's see who they have.
He's a king among the... He does very well financially.
He's living modestly.
I mean, he lives very modestly, even upset.
I mean, it's the perception that he writes for young writers, and I don't think that he would necessarily agree with that.
You did mention that this book was, part of the motivation here was to try to remember, recall, what it was like to be a young guy at the end, right?
And I suppose when you were writing the first novel, you were looking back 20 years earlier there, weren't you?
You still kind of went the same thing, maybe?
No.
You did McCarthy?
Oh, it was a story strictly of you, I guess, but...
Oh yeah, certainly that was a story looking back 20, yeah, I guess 20 years ago, prior to my writing it.
And there is this element in this major part of the November fest, certainly.
Living in the city, that's interesting about it,
My editor, I think, Jim Zilliman, is a man older than I am, or a smart guy, never suggests anything of the kind, you know, that it be regarded as a novel.
I'm just wondering out loud on that.
You said you've seen it categorized.
Oh, absolutely.
That's how it is.
That has come to be identified.
Was it a great deal from young readers?
I have, yeah.
I've had a number of letters from kids, high school kids.
I was asked to be a speaker at a certificate granting.
I didn't do it.
It was something I did very comfortably.
A congratulations ceremony because the script
a local group here read Winning the City.
This was a year ago.
Anyway, the final scene in that book, in Winning the City, when the kid buys the first pack of cigarettes, and this page, and one of them smoked, not everyone there, everyone had captured it.
I talked to smoke for the first time, and I intended it to be a statement of
Well, the Declaration of Independence is positive.
This is who I am.
I'm ultimately the winner, because I'm going to accept who I am.
Almost everyone, my friends included, said, oh, let me forget.
Let me put you down there.
Obviously, life is going to go nowhere, because look at me, here you become the smoker.
And that's not what I meant, you know?
And he sort of rose his rose.
Yeah, yeah.
But I think I'm wrong in that one.
In any case, the reason I think of that is because my editor, in terms of age and so on, he never called me on that.
He never said anything in the kind of, do you really want to end on this down?
No.
He didn't say this?
Not at all.
No, and I didn't intend that it be a downer.
Boy, he's been a downer for readers.
Really?
Well, I've heard from so many people, friends and
Most of them are as much as anything else, I suppose.
Most at the end.
Only criminals smoke.
Well, you must have smoked.
I mean, I've been smoking pretty much through everything here.
I mean, that's... I've been caught for 10 years now.
Really?
I mean, the cigarettes really play a major... I mean, they're there.
Everything that I read that you've written.
I mean, the kid, when he's arrested his cigarettes, he gets whacked across the face when he
And then here, I mean, he brings the gift.
The gift is a carton of cigarettes.
I mean, this is the token.
Because she sees it as a, she keeps treating her in the hooker as a street walker, you know.
But you give a chick, I mean, it's a cigarette.
Because when I was on my aircraft carrier, we used to be able to get cartons of cigarettes, and it was like cigarettes, but for a bucket carton, people would say anything.
As soon as the ship leaves, three-mile weather, they went that old bucket cart.
Can you believe this?
That's what I say, $9, 10,000.
Yeah, and this is I'm talking 1968, 69.
Oh, really?
Yeah.
And, I mean, hey, you know, England is Vietnamese.
You're getting bigger.
Anyway.
So, what are you working right now?
Another novel?
I'm doing a new novel, yeah.
It's more invention.
It's really much more invention.
I guess we were talking about following the, you know, started with an autobiographical novel.
Right.
And I think that... You know, there's at least three of them, from what I can see.
I'm kind of branching away with that.
I mean, that's... It's certainly true.
It's actually just entirely researched
and Novemberfest is largely invented, too.
I know what it's like to be a parent, certainly, but I had no experience being a man and a 54-year-old child.
And there's other parts of that, plus the background story
That's not your story.
That's not my story.
I was wondering, too, because, you know, you're this guy driving down in Boston.
Are you teaching in Boston now?
Yeah, I teach at Amerson College.
Okay, and how often do you teach down there?
I go in two or three days a week.
Is this something you're doing now for the pleasure of it or for the employment of it?
For the employment.
I need a lot of income.
so I find maybe three days a week.
So you don't know about your writing there?
Yeah.
No, I'd like to.
Next year.
Yeah, next.
This one's coming out here.
In November 5th, I've had three really wonderful reviews, the trade reviews, the PW Review, Perkins, and the book, and all.
I thought it was really a good answer.
I wouldn't, you know, have a TBR done in this time?
No.
And what's cut date on this?
November 8th.
That's what they said.
See, I know I haven't gotten my review copy yet.
And my deadline for this piece is November 30th.
Usually P.O.D.
is right out on it today.
And I haven't received any review copies.
There's four weeks late, so I only got copies shipped to Air Express.
That's what happened.
Two seconds.
One week ago.
I think they may say November 8th, but I bet it's not in the book stories yet.
I don't think it is in the book stories.
I haven't heard any word on the game there.
I've heard it.
Now, this is not for my piece, but I mean, a reviewer out-of-the-wood work can take 25 minutes to make a judgment.
It's like a wound, isn't it?
It's like a knife.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah, it's awful.
It means it's hard.
Yeah.
And do you think the person just misunderstood the book?
Well, it's a review in time.
It's a self-indulgent kind of review.
It opens to something like, here's another writer writing about a divorce.
75%, or 5% of the people who tend to get divorced, and 75% of the writers are writing novels about it.
And he uses a few words that I don't want to bring enough.
And concludes with something like, you better off spending your time in your dog world.
I mean, it's just, it's terrible.
It's mucking.
I hate mucking.
I would never remember when I was looking at it.
I'd kill him.
I can't imagine that time would allow you to do like that.
That's correct.
Because there's no evidence put forward.
He identifies me as a professor of German at the University of New Hampshire.
Wow.
The University of New Hampshire isn't even mentioned in the book.
I did teach there once, just many years ago.
Well, of course, if it's close enough, but you don't teach German.
I don't teach German.
That's a flaw, right there.
That is an invention.
I mean, your guy had
Oh, yes, of course.
It's a total invention.
It's not autobiographical at all.
No way, no.
And you teach writing in Boston.
I teach writing in Boston, yeah.
And the... Well, there's several other actuators in the review of any analogies.
I just don't get into it anyway.
I think we've talked about your development as a writer, haven't we?
You certainly covered that.
You certainly do have a preference for the longer form as opposed to the shorter form.
You have to have the stories, but a lot of the stories have been more or less borrowed from the works and progress of the novels.
That's happened, yeah.
It began to happen in the first place, I guess, with a couple of stories I mentioned, but thereafter, if I were to finish a chapter or an episode that had the shape of the story, I'd pull it out and give it some polish and do it as a story.
So I did it.
I think Carty had stories, I don't know, perhaps half a dozen pieces that published his stories in magazines.
Do you have a reader in mind?
Or are you writing mainly?
You can raise yourself.
I mean, you made a remark a while back about the dictation sort of weakness for the injured and damaged people.
I guess they were quite solid.
writing for a particular reader.
I haven't thought of writing about characters, people who are weak or damaged, but I think I do have a special sort of sympathy for some mythical reader out there whose life will be addressed by what I write.
I find that to be an appealing idea.
I like that.
I've had a good response over the years from young readers.
I've been identified as someone who writes, who's written about adolescence, and I hadn't set out to be a writer about adolescence, but it just happened, by the way.
Someone who writes about adolescence with a particular sympathy or insight or something.
So I would guess if I had a reader in mind,
I'd like to speak to that kind of reader.
I also like certainly to speak to, I'm going to take my writing very seriously.
I would like other writers to admire my work.
That's important to me.
I try hard.
I would like very much to have other writers.
If you've identified as a writer's writer, I'd like to be identified as a writer's writer.
Based on some of the comments that you work at BC, to be the wrong writers that I have, the highest respect for the name.
You send me some of the words and, you know, it's pretty spectacular.
That must be quite nice.
Yeah, that's very satisfying.
You can tell if they're genuine in the remarks that people make or abuse that they hear.
And, yeah, that's how I get down.
Pull something like that out.
Did you say that you built a quiet body of work?
That's reasonable statement, yeah.
Have you yet had
the breakthrough book or are you still looking for that?
I'm still looking for the breakthrough book.
I think my first novel, uh, spoiled me in a way because it was, uh, uh, it was very successful, yeah, beautifully reviewed, uh, and it settled all over the place and, and it was translated and, uh,
And I thought, well, that's what it's all about.
I broke the snow hole, and I'm not just going to go respond.
Did you feel that?
That it's all uphill?
Yeah, well, I mean... I felt it was smooth for a smooth sail.
Smooth sail.
Yeah.
Do you remember how well it did?
I think that in hardcover, it must have sold something around $20,000.
Wow.
And I think $400,000...
It's not in print.
I thought vintage, the whole idea was vintage was that they stay in print forever.
Vintage?
That edition has not been available now for a couple of years.
They told me to send it back to them, by the way.
Oh, the copies?
Yeah.
There aren't any in the building.
You know, the cops sent me what they could find.
And, I guess, Gary, technical collaboratively, and I am returning when you did that, you know, when I'm done.
Are they going to do the photography for another edition?
There is nothing beautiful right now planned, but I'm my agent.
Well, don't forget I'm writing for P.W.
I might even have a little, what I write might have a little bit of influence in this area.
I would, I would, uh,
My agent is hoping to place Car Thief and my collection of stories that contained eight stories.
And I always had these title arguments with Eric.
The name of the collection, my name for the collection of stories, my title, was A Dozen Stories when I first put together.
It was Alone at Night with a Dozen Cigarettes.
and when you love to smoke, when you were young enough and healthy enough that you thought you could manage it.
And there is that sort of occasion when you're alone at night and smoking, you have these laptops and cigarettes.
So I wanted to make a kind of sentimental, deliver a sentimental message in a way, a message of a certain sentiment
people who kicked smoking to recall how the hell it used to be when you didn't have to worry so much about it.
How about you this cigarette?
I can't really be around the smoke anymore.
I wasn't that happy to smoke it, but it makes me feel it's up for me to be out of the smoke.
I can't believe it.
I smoked cigars, but good cigars for 20 years.
I'm even walking on the street.
I mean, I get lightheaded.
It's almost transports me.
Is that right?
With the tobacco that's there, I could easily go in and buy myself a $3 and pop away.
Anyway, Laura, what about title?
The title was Change the Children's Hearts.
That's the title we settled on.
I had a mind to return that to a collection because it was never really published.
to return it to a collection of top stories, reclaim my old title, because I had recovered all rights in the list, and some of them are on your desk, and I didn't choose to write it all.
It's mine, and Carthi's is mine as well.
Well, Carthi's is a heck of a project.
You know, I'm always looking at copyright pages and stuff,
I was halfway into that book, and I said, well, this could be said any time.
There are certain things, and clearly I'm in the 50s and the 60s, but he wrote this in the late 50s, I guess, right?
Mm-hmm.
You know, this could really, this book could be any time.
You certainly are most comfortable with writing in the longer form, though.
I mean, you're not.
I'm a novelist, Eric.
I will occasionally do a story, but very rarely.
As a change of pace.
Yeah, I was hit on an idea of something that would be a new story, but I'm very comfortable writing novels.
I like getting into them.
I like having trouble creating an entire world and a lot of creative and knowledge.
And I love identifying myself with the book.
As a writer, stories are difficult.
It's a big world out there for stories.
There are very few places to talk or something.
This is funny because of the P.W.
thing.
What other authors have influenced you?
Are there any others you want to add to that?
But this is cute, too, just because this is a generic thing.
Did he attend the Iowa Writers' Workshop or the Writing Center?
Did he have friends in the literary community?
Because you teach as well as I am.
What is his daily schedule?
What are his work habits?
Do you write every day?
I do write every day, yeah.
And I can see you write in a word processor now?
No, actually, I compose along here.
Still?
At this window?
Yeah, I sit here.
I have a pretty few pounds down there in the water.
Mm-hmm.
And I... That's historic portsmouth out the window, right?
That's historic portsmouth, yeah.
You don't find that it's a distraction.
You write on those
I write on these legal pads and I'm working this morning.
It gets a little bright.
Then I go to the word processor.
I find that I can't really get the words just right on the word processor.
I really like to do it in longhand.
New Hampshire is home for you now, but you've lived kind of a parapatetic life up to coming here.
Yeah, New Hampshire is somewhere early.
I like very much living in Portsmouth, a nice little town, and I love to walk.
Do you work out?
Do you look in good shape?
It has courts right down here.
I know, that's quite a nice thing.
Play tennis.
In fact, Shannon and I,
We've invented what we call winter tennis.
The coldest weather has little tight gloves to put on.
It works.
Well, we're pretty close to the ocean.
We get a pretty good, I'll bet you get a pretty good... The breeze is the worst thing because it will blow the ball over the place.
But we go out.
In fact, a number of other people have followed suit, and they leave the net about pretty much year round.
So, except for snow, play tennis in 33 temperatures.
With little gloves, you can warm up in a hurry, and it works.
But as I'm saying about the walking, I like living where I can walk.
And I walked to the post office this morning to send some books to my kids.
I just got them copies out there.
And I like that I can just walk down to the post office.
I walk to the library, drugstore, grocery store.
I want to get in my car.
I'm sure you're in New England there now.
I'd be coming to England there.
Yeah, New Hampshire.
It's kind of a stoicism up here, though, isn't there?
You don't necessarily see it in the Midwest, I guess.
I think there is, yeah.
Yeah, there is a little Yankee kind of distance.
How long is the drive to Boston from here?
About an hour and 20, an hour and a half?
I can make it in an hour and 10 minutes, hour and five or 10 minutes.
either I know all the moves to make.
But I allow an hour and a half for, you know, I'm going to leave.
My sentence is to run 95 and go over the Mystic River Bridge, though, the Mystic River Bridge.
The Tobin Bridge.
Yeah, that's what I do, yeah.
No, actually, going in, I take, I don't take the bridge going in.
I take, I get on to say 128 and take 93.
Really?
Yeah, Route 1, uh,
Leaving 95 is very slow.
93 is going to take you over by the South East East Westway.
12 miles longer, but it's faster.
Coming home, I take the bridge.
Coming back north.
Did you want to identify Janet?
I know you have
Is this a note of dedication and acknowledgments that you want to mention?
Janet certainly has been a great support.
Janet, do you want to give her a surname?
Janet Schofield.
S-C-H-O-S-I-E-L-D.
one I'm happy to make.
I think he bought the book.
I'm sure he was.
That's what I thought about that.
That's one of the reasons, when we talked about him earlier, one of the reasons.
He hasn't liked my work.
He was a great supporter.
Did you ever meet with him at the Crossroads?
Oh, yes.
Yeah.
I don't see if I can get this in his pieces.
Yeah, a lot of times I'd tell him there.
He was really in a bad church.
Yeah, he...
He's in Darche for years, huh?
That's amazing.
He had the TV when he was younger, too, didn't he?
Yeah.
He had terrible lungs.
He looked like death-worn over 20 years.
And the drinking bouts he used to get with Buddy Everett.
Everett Scheme is this guy's name, you know, looking up a name.
He wrote a biography of Rocky Marciano and a crime worker.
He was looking away the hell up.
Oh, really?
Well, he's a fabulous literary and fabulous writer right now.
He loves the paper.
That's a tough life to be in the late 50s, as he is.
And to be so super qualified as an outdoor writer or this and that, you can't get it.
You can't get everything going.
And I was getting a little gusty.
cranking out books, I think, just a little too fast, and trying to place them for the money.
I mean, and that's never going to work, to get the fast 10K, you know.
It's sad to see it.
So you do, you are teaching, because it's important, for the sake of life.
Is this at Emerson?
Yes.
What's your position there?
I'm a professor.
They may be a professor.
Terrific.
A tenured professor?
I'm tenured.
Yes, I'm tenured and a professor, and I am the... I'm in charge of the graduate program.
Oh, great.
That's great.
So... It is Emerson College of formal languages.
Yeah.
Is it in the back bay?
It's in the back bay.
They give me a parking place.
So I go flying in and park.
That's terrific.
I love the stories of you guys.
I mean, I always cry with quarters at the thing.
If you get parking, if you get a ticket in Boston, it's big money now.
Yeah.
And those meter maids are on you within an instant.
Within an instant.
Have I missed anything in your view of this discussion?
Is there anything that you want to tell me about your work and your writing and your things and everything else?
Does it feel to you that we've covered?
It does.
It feels to me.
Yeah, it feels good, feels right.
Okay.
And just these PWPs are 2,500 words.
I know when I've got more than 4,000 words.
I think we've covered everything.
They really like all this publishing stuff.
Can we just go over?
I can always call you on this, too.
I might just do that.
You know the little blocks they have?
Oh, they show publication history?
Yes, dates and years of publication and publishers.
Okay.
Frank, why don't we just do that?
Sure, okay.
Why don't we just talk, and I'll read them off here.
The Car Thief was published.
Random House, 1972.
Dell Books, 1973.
Contemporary, 1987.
Okay, A German Affair.
A German Affair, Random House, 1976.
Oh, that's that.
True Detective.
True Detective, Summers Books, 1987.
Avon, 1988.
And then Winning the City was Summers Books, 1987.
1990, and Avon 1991, and Children's Hearts of Summit Books, 19... I can check that out.
Don't worry about it.
I can find that.
That'll be the Harvard Institute.
1992.
Okay.
Do you have a paperback on this guy yet, or is this to me?
I haven't known a word yet on any paperback.
I'm looking forward to seeing what will happen.
Sure.
Do you know what the first frame was?
I think it was 10,000.
That's what was told to me when they were talking about
getting copies in one of those two weeks ago.
So do you have this... I mean, you love to break through and to get that water out of you, I guess.
That's everybody's dream, isn't it?
Yeah, that's pretty much frustrating.
I mean, you're a fine writer.
I mean, you know you're a fine writer.
You know that your other writers think that you're, believe that you're a writer's writer as we used the train earlier.
Is there a formula?
Dick Gates said, if I do it, I do it myself.
Oh, I don't know.
I don't think there is a formula that any of us can easily embrace.
It seems to me you've got to love what you're doing.
And I think those people who have those kinds of commercial success, Stephen King loves what he does.
And I guess John Grisham must, I don't know John Grisham's work, but he must love doing what he does.
And I love doing what I do, not wish it were as successful financially, because I could do more of it.
One thing I know that's very true of my own experience is that I feel that having hit my fifties, that I feel much more in control of my work.
When I first started writing, writing the car piece and trying to write other things, I would know what I was after, but I couldn't make it happen.
I couldn't get into words on the page, and now it seems to me it would be a very difficult thing to get a handle on or to capture in words, but it seems to me that at this time in my life, if I want it, I can get the words very quickly, and I can begin to work with them.
That's kind of reassuring and pleasant.
I don't know how it applies to other writers.
It makes you wonder about all the people who died young.
If that would apply across the board, what one of the things they might have done.
But I know some writers who seem to absolutely get run out of gas by like 40s or mid-40s or something.
They no longer have the desire for the interest.
Myself, I now only feel more desire, more interest.
I have a trilogy planned, actually.
novel that I'm working on now, I have been partway into another novel, and I mean, partway, I have about 50 pages of it, but it's one of three pieces that I've had in mind to turn to next.
I'd love to have a breakthrough.
Let me just, I'd love to stay here, watch the snow fall and take walks and
and do my work.
Are you a morning person?
I'm a morning person, yeah, an early riser.
At what time does it pretty much switch off?
Well, I usually, if I have to go to school, I will be up here riding by maybe 7, 7.30, and I'll be able to work until 9 o'clock, 9.30, and I have to shift, run down, take a shower, get in the car, and I have to get my school stuff together.
And on days when I don't have to go to school, I will start at about the same time, but I'll work until 1 o'clock or something.
Until you're hungry, really.
Do you enjoy the classes at least?
I enjoy graduate classes a lot.
Some I enjoy more than others.
I feel like I became a good teacher over a period of time.
I've been teaching for a long stretch now, but I feel like I've taught enough.
I'm very keen to myself in ways that I, you know, the same questions, the whole crop with new people, and I always question the whole crop, and the same question
Whereas as a writer, you're always exploring the territory.
Yeah, you're always moving off down the road somewhere, and that's really fun to do, and challenging and exciting to do.
Dick Gates was one guy, as I recall now, who believed that if a writer hasn't done it, and I think he's wrong, but he used to challenge us to say, name some great writers in his 60s, who's great as what comes up at a certain age.
I know he was very fearful about losing it.
Maybe it was desire, or maybe it was frustration, or lack of desire.
But I just don't think that's the case at all.
If you have the motivation for it, and you still want to have the stuck, then the best work should be another new one.
I mean, is it?
Yeah, why not?
I mean, we learn it as we go along, I would think.
As long as you know, what I have things to say, I kind of admit,
I guess subject matter has no problem with it.
You said you can block once in your life.
That's about it, right?
Yeah.
I've never thought about that, writers in their 60s and what kind of work they do.
I didn't have to think about that.
There was Yeats talking 20 years ago.
He was in his cuffs at the back.
He was always dealing with it.
I mean, he had such physical burdens to deal with it, the TV, and the foods.
And Enfacema, we continue to smoke through Enfacema.
Anyone among your contemporaries you read for pleasure or for inspiration?
Oh, let's see.
I read Toby Wolfe.
I read Richard Ford.
I read...
um do you exchange manuscripts with anybody or are you pretty much a solitary writer i think i'm pretty much a longer solitary writer alice mcdermott
I really rather like Bastard Out of Carolina by Dorothy Allison.
That was a nice piece of work.
Reminded me of my own novel.